---

tags: [meet]

---

* date: 20221110
* day: Thursday
* location: SV1717
* time: 1330
* topic: Presentations and Keynote speech  wrap-up
* instructor: Dr. Seng Chin Mah, Chairman of the Board,BioVersys AG


## Gautam notes

* For group work: Emotional intelligence plus motivation is greater than core intelligence.

* Phases for any task:
PPDAC - Problem plan data analysis conclusion

* EU UN job opening.

## Keynote  speech  wrap-up:  “So,  where  do  you go from here?”
* Dr. Seng Chin Mah, Chairman of the Board,BioVersys AG

This talk will be followed by the 30 min presentations from each group. 

* List which parts of course you found interesting.
* Getting info early _never_ hurts.

## Big pharma:
* can give you experience
* have money but are not a charity
* they are probably looking for you
* looking for a specific person
* _you_ must close that gap

You may have expertise but not experience.

## Biotech:
* can give experience
* less money
* may be more willing to hire you
* but there are trade offs

## Golden rules: 
* Do a good job
* Show that you have potential
* Don't piss off anyone who can block you

# To do in start up
* Keep unique seeling point (the dream) alive and current
* Deliver on promises (maybe not milestones)
* Liquidity is King
	- raise money
	- raise loads
	- keep raising

(1) private equity (2) venture capital (3) non-dilutive funding (government).
If you have _any avenue_ for non-dilutive funding always apply - shares will not be lost. Dr Mah said ~50% of his best funding was non-dilutive. However, you will not be able to get top ups.

* "It is easier to sell hope than reality"

