
---

tags: [meet week5 culture]

---

* date: 20220929
* day: Thursday
* location: SV1717
* time: 1630
* topic: Cultural diversity
* instructor: Lionel Laroche, Lorenz Hofer

# Managing Cultural Diversity in Technical & Scientific Professions

## Pre-readings and viewing:
* E4L_W6_Lionel Laroche (switch.ch) <https://tube.switch.ch/videos/ggiMblXAPQ>
* https://www.youtube.com/c/MultiCulturalBusinessSolutions
* Microsoft Word - Document1 (ashg.org) <https://www.ashg.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/genetic-variation-essay.pdf>

## Class notes general announcement
* Individual report 2022/10/15
* Group report 2022/11/10 1600 in SV1717
* Hard copies of example report available today

## Managing Cultural Diversity in Scientific and Technical Professions. 
* Pre-watching: E4L_W6_Lionel Laroche (switch.ch) <https://tube.switch.ch/videos/ggiMblXAPQ>
* Presented by: Lionel Laroche, President at MultiCultural Business Solutions Inc, Canada.
* He wrote the book that _was_ available from Fiorella.

* Example: Firefighters do drills to remove their diversity
* Example: The center for Arts embraces diversity to reap the fruits of divergent knowledge.

* Those who deal with diversity are comfortable with shades of grey. 

Some key points for new audience:
1. there _is_ cultural diversity.
2. it is important impact in workplace.
3. it does impact _your_ work.

Shows slide 5: pyramid - personality culture and humanity.

Anecdote:
* In US, if you act _different_ it may be perceived as a personality trait first, and a cultural trait later.
* In China, if you act _different_ it may be perceived as  and a cultural trait first (Western habit), and a personality trait later.

If someone were to point out during a meeting _"this is a cultural difference"_ if would be quite insulting. 

When you pick up on something that is due to difference in culture it removes the feeling of personal failure.

In 71 when Kissinger and Nixon when to China, they were there to learn, and praised China for its culture which went a long way in the start of modern relations (regardless of final outcome).

What is the composition of the leadership team?
They set the tone based on what they reward or do not reward.

_"Why is this important to you?"_ is a fine question to ask.

## CASE STUDY - Doing a Swiss Life Science PhD out of Tanzania - Challenges and Opportunities. 
* Presented by: Lorenz Hofer, PhD Candidate, Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, Allschwil.

* Intro
* In the global south, research inst. are not very culturally diverse (unlike the north, as stated in earlier lecture).
* Why Africa? 
* Challenges
	1. Communication - all kinds of non-smart phones. An example: in Tanzania any conversation is interrupted to make or take a phone call.
	2. Cultural challenges - different norms and values. Example: homosexuality is prohibited by law.
	3. Technical and scientific challenges - limited resource, low infrastructure, expertise.  Must be flexible, generalise, and can work in different fields - i.e. both a molecular biologist and an electrician. Must also be skilled in your expertise since others may not be available to assist.
	- Number one challenge was to be a _specialised generalist_.

### Did I meet objectives?
	- Well, changing the proposed phd title illustrates how much adaption and resilience is required to meet the "objectives".

### Two proverbs
A chameleon that wants to survive from the burning bush must abandon the mjectic walk of its ancestors.
A chameleon changes its color but not its skin.

* Conclusion
Be the chameleon, challenge yourself to abandon the majestic walk of your ancestors.
Accept and enjoy the difference but stay true to yourself.




